RAB.World - MODEL START HERE
---------------------------

Audience: LLMs, coding agents and cloud models arriving with no context.
This is the canonical project boot and working-instructions file.
README.txt holds model-facing project context. __docs holds human docs.
Write house guidance as plain-text .txt files; do not introduce .md files.

For an LLM or cloud model: this document is setup guidance, not a request
to execute every command. Follow the current user's task. If you only have
web access, read the files and explain what remains unavailable; do not
claim that you cloned, configured or ran the project.


BOOT IN THIS ORDER
------------------

1. Read this file, then README.txt beside it.
2. Identify the current user's request and the real checkout location.
3. Check the owning repository's status and relevant local instructions.
4. Read only the rules, skills, contracts and stamp guides needed for the
   requested area, including its RULES.txt and existing agent instructions.
5. Complete the requested work and verify its output and behavior.

On PIXEL, C:\Users\pixelcommander\Documents\ChatGPT\RAB.World is an older
saved workspace that only points to C:\RAB.World. Use C:\RAB.World explicitly
for project commands there. Elsewhere, use the actual checkout root and
configured remotes; do not assume access to the laptop or house server.

Preserve house boot and world-resolution instructions supplied to the
session. This project is not a replacement for the server-owned registry.
Server drive letters are not laptop drive letters. An old path in copied
documentation does not prove a current location or working connection.

Keep orientation narrow. Personal material is outside project boot context;
access it only when explicitly requested. Do not load __docs in full.
Prefer the implementation owner's current contract over an older snapshot
in __docs/about. Report missing guidance and unverified behavior plainly.

The current user request defines the work. Reading a plan, review, example
or historical record does not authorize executing the work it describes.
Starting services, running training, changing configuration or publishing
work follows the current task's scope. After orientation, complete that
task. For orientation alone, give a short project summary and material gaps.

Reuse canonical names, keys, contracts and existing stamps. Apply each
area's own rules; do not impose one toolkit's file layout on everything.
Preserve existing local work. Verify produced output and behavior, and
distinguish observed facts from assumptions and intended future features.


1. UNDERSTAND THE GIT STRUCTURE
------------------------------

The workspace is one Git repository, including Box and Toolkits:

  RAB.World/                    Parent repository
    .git/
    .codex/config.toml         Codex discovery of START_HERE.txt
    START_HERE.txt              Model boot and working instructions
    README.txt                  Model project context
    HouseKeys.types.ts          Shared house vocabulary
    __docs/                    Human documentation and training material
    __shared/                  Shared internal/admin interface home
    ganglion/                  Intended central skill home
    RAB.Box/                   Box source (no nested .git)
    RAB.Toolkits/              Toolkit source (no nested .git)

Repository address:
  https://github.com/pixel-commander/RAB.World.git

RAB.World owns the files in RAB.Box and RAB.Toolkits directly, not as
submodules or embedded repositories. Commit and push from the parent.
The combined source is published in this repository. Existing nested clones on other machines
need a careful migration preserving their uncommitted work and history.

Personal material is excluded from the shared repository and cold boot.
Git tracks files, so an empty planned folder such as ganglion may be absent
from a fresh clone until its first file is committed.


2. DOWNLOAD A FRESH WORKSPACE
----------------------------

You need Git and access to the repository. Use git clone for a working
checkout: a ZIP download or copied source folder does not include Git
history or establish a connection to its remote.

Choose a parent directory where you are allowed to create the workspace.
On laptop PIXEL, the established project home is C:\RAB.World, so a fresh
setup there would start from C:\. On another machine or in a cloud workspace,
use its actual writable parent directory instead.

From that parent directory, run:

  git clone https://github.com/pixel-commander/RAB.World.git RAB.World

That single clone supplies all three source areas. Do not clone nested repositories into the children.

If a destination already contains files, inspect it first. Do not clone
over it, replace its history, or discard local changes as a setup shortcut.
For an existing checkout, go to the update workflow below.

Git reference: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone


3. VERIFY THE REPOSITORY BOUNDARIES
---------------------------------

From inside the downloaded RAB.World folder, run:

  git rev-parse --show-toplevel
  git -C RAB.Box rev-parse --show-toplevel
  git -C RAB.Toolkits rev-parse --show-toplevel

All three commands must report the same RAB.World root. The children are
ordinary source folders and must not have their own .git metadata.

Confirm the remotes and working state:

  git remote -v
  git -C RAB.Box remote -v
  git -C RAB.Toolkits remote -v
  git status --short --branch
  git -C RAB.Box status --short --branch
  git -C RAB.Toolkits status --short --branch

All origin URLs should match the RAB.World address in section 1.


4. CONNECT BOX TO A LOCAL TOOLKIT WHEN NEEDED
-------------------------------------------

Having the source folders beside each other does not automatically register
a toolkit with Box. First read Box's current agent instructions and README,
and the relevant toolkit's RULES.txt.

Box reads machine-specific toolkit links from RAB.Box/TOOLKITS.json. That
file is ignored by Box's local ignore rules within the parent repository.
The Box folder supplies
TOOLKITS.example.json as a starting point. Preserve existing local links
when configuring an already-used checkout.

The current React toolkit root is RAB.Toolkits/rab-react-kit. A toolkit
root must contain settings.json and tools/. The model-kit folder currently
contains rule guidance; it is not an executable toolkit root.

For a fresh setup at C:\RAB.World, the local TOOLKITS.json can contain:

  {
    "version": "toolkit-links/v1",
    "toolkits": [
      {
        "path": "C:/RAB.World/RAB.Toolkits/rab-react-kit",
        "enabled": true
      }
    ]
  }

Use the real absolute toolkit path on the current machine. For example,
a cloud checkout needs its own absolute path, not the laptop's C: path
or an old Desktop-t72isdi share from copied documentation.

Box requires Node.js 22 or newer. When running Box is part of the task,
launch it from RAB.Box with node server.mjs --open, or use RUN_UI.cmd on
Windows. The normal local address is http://127.0.0.1:52814. An existing
instance should be checked before another is started.

In a cloud environment, use its supported preview/port-forwarding mechanism;
the cloud machine's localhost is not automatically the reader's localhost.

Box-owned saved work belongs in the executing user's home .rab directory,
separate from these source checkouts. Cloning proves the source is present;
runtime, interface and toolkit behavior still need appropriate verification.


5. UPDATE AND SAVE THE RIGHT REPOSITORY
-------------------------------------

Inspect status and preserve local work before pulling. From RAB.World:

  git pull --ff-only

One pull updates the combined source. If a pull fails
because of local changes or divergent history, inspect and resolve that
condition; do not force-reset or delete work to make the command pass.

For authorized changes, review the diff, stage the intended files, commit
and push from RAB.World. Review Box and Toolkits changes together when they
depend on each other. Keep runtime data, dependencies, local toolkit paths
and credentials ignored; do not force-add them.
Uncommitted or unpushed local fixes are not included in another machine's clone.


6. HOW MODELS FIND THIS FILE
---------------------------

For any model, use an explicit entry instruction:

  Read START_HERE.txt in the RAB.World root, then README.txt. Follow the
  relevant area instructions and complete the current task.

This repository's .codex/config.toml sets:

  project_doc_fallback_filenames = ["START_HERE.txt"]

Codex can discover this file through that configuration in a trusted
project. A new session must load the configuration. Project-local settings
are ignored in untrusted projects. Other hosts may need explicit entry
instructions; do not assume they automatically discover .txt files.

A session opened in a child folder still belongs to the RAB.World repository
and needs this parent boot file and README.

Codex discovery and project configuration references:
  https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/agent-configuration/agents-md
  https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/config-file/config-basic

Continue with README.txt beside this file for the project's purpose and
the roles of its parts. Keep detailed implementation rules with their owners.
